Hi everyone. All right, welcome to the market value assessment. So the market value assessment is a valuation tool and a deal analysis tool and a storage repository for all of your financials of the business. It's also a working capital calculator and it helps build out your marketing materials for go-to-market. So it does a lot of lifting, and in any given deal, I'm in and out of it a significant amount of time. So I'm gonna give you the high level. This video is hopefully going to be under the 10-minute mark. I'm just gonna give you the high-level overview of the MVA. The MVA teaches you how to use it itself. The tool is self-teaching in that you go to it, you sell a valuation, and then you go through the videos one at a time on how to do the valuation. Actually, let me pause this because I want to bring up Cognio Forms. Okay, we've got Cognio Forms open, so this is everything. All right, let me first show you the valuation element.

So thinking about doing evaluation, how am I using the MVA for evaluation? And maybe I'll start actually selling the valuation. So first when you're selling it, they're in your sales tools, there's a deck that helps you sell this valuation. So basically through the process, you do a VAC, like the Value Acceleration Calculator with a prospect that shows them how they can increase the value of their company going to market. And more importantly, it shows the value that we bring to the equation. And every time I've done a VAC, I think the smallest lift that it had was maybe $200,000, but usually with the businesses of the size that we're working with, That is, the business is going to sell for around $2 million to $50 million. The lift that the owner is going to see in the VAC is around $1 million to call it $5 million of difference. So it shows them, if you're working with us and we can dig into the company, we aren't going to be able to get all that $5 million because there's work to be

done on your side to reduce risk. But here's the X, Y, and Z that we do to increase your sale price. And it drives them towards doing an MVA. And the MVA is really just think about it as I'm turning somebody from a prospect to a client. And more importantly, I'm not selling them a valuation because the valuation is just only an element of it. I'm selling them an increased share value through advisory. That's what I'm selling them. And that I'm the person to do that with you. And the MVA is the vehicle to convert them from a prospect into a client. So now they're accustomed to paying me and they're accustomed to paying me a rate that is equivalent to the value that I'm bringing to the table, which then allows much more easily to convert them into a recurring revenue payment down the road.

So that just gives you the 30,000 on why the MVA even exists and why I created it, because most valuations that are done out there are probably worth 2,500 bucks, 1,500 bucks, and that's really what they're truly worth. The MVA is worth much more than that because it dives in so much deeper. So this tool right here, a customized guide to increasing your share value, this shows a business owner, after you do the VAC with them, you're like, I'll follow up with, you know, what the next step would be and sell them on a valuation. Then they, this can go along with that email. So it's okay, here you are, and what's the MVA? And it just tells them what it is. And what does an MVA tell me? It's like, this is what it tells them. And it's a nice little sales doc that kind of differentiates the MVA from a regular valuation. allowing them to invest into themselves. It's like this is an investing into yourself situation, right?

Okay, so I just want to show you that marketing material because it's there to help sell this. And I also want to show you what the standard price is that we sell this for. You can sell for whatever price you want. There's some people in the Partner Network that sell the MVA for 20 grand. There's some people in the Partner Network that sell the MVA for, well, no one really sells it for less than $5,750 because unless there's some reason to kind of land a client and give them extra value. But this is what we sell the MVA for. MVA Lite is $5,750. MVA Standard is $9,750 and the MVA Premium is $15,000. And the reason why this exists is to push people into this. And the reason why this exists is to push people into this. Like we're really trying to get 10k out of a client. It costs about maybe $500 to deliver this. So the margin on it is absolutely astronomical. It's beautiful. But this is the whole reason that this is, these are the different tiers, right? And we show them and say, there's

a, we can, we do the valuation for free for you and do the VAC for free, you know, then the light takes it up a step. MBA standard is kind of what you want. And then VA premium is like a little bit overkill. Then it pushes people to this. Okay. That's your sales deck. So then you've sold an MVA. So now you are going to do an MVA and you sold it on the valuation side of things. So the, for the valuation, the only tabs you're really caring about are the data entry tab. The P&L tab is you enter the P&L information, the balance sheet, recasting, future P&L that does the pro forma. benchmarking analysis. That's pretty much all you need to do to get the valuation out the door. Where does the data come from? The data comes from the business owner and it comes from sending them this market value assessment. So if I go down here to, if I just go over to, this is in the Cognito form. There's videos on Cognito form. This is a high level.

So you kind of get your grounding of where all the pieces are at. If I go to this form, this is what the client will see. Oh, my cache is, sometimes my computer does this, it always does it during demos. The cache isn't, something's, this isn't like my computer issue. Let me actually, I'll just show it, I'll pause and show it in incognito form. There we go. I do not know why it does not want to work sometimes on my computer when I'm filming Loom at the same time. Anyway, so this is the data collection form, so it's incognito form. You literally just send a link to your client. This is what they get. It has a welcome page. They enter their company details. There's general questions. These general questions are risk questions that are in alignment with the valuation. Their financial questions, this is where they upload their financials, trailing 12, 5 years tax returns, that kind of stuff.

This is where they answer the normalization questions and I kind of walk them through what so they understand normalizations and they can add in all the normalizations and they do a bit of future forecasting. So this form is nice because we send it to them. They fill it out. Some people fill it out quickly. Some people fill it out slowly. Doesn't matter to me because they've all paid their 10 grand so they can do it at whatever pace that they want to do it because I've already been paid. So that's that piece. So that's Cognitoforms that collects the data. and then you just walk through here and fill out the valuation. So that's where, pretty much right here is where your valuation ends. Then the working capital tab, this calculates a company's working capital. For those of you who's taken Monty Walker's course, this uses Monty Walker's philosophy. So this is, just makes it really nice for analyzing the working capital in a business.

This one's very, this is a decent sized company, so it's kind of complicated and it's, restoration company, so there's a lot of working capital in it because their AR gets paid out really slowly. But this shows the accountant-style working capital, and then this shows actual net operating working capital as is calculated by Monty Walker. So that's what that tab does. The VAC you know, so it's just if you want to do a VAC, if you just want to run this with their numbers, their actual numbers, that's available. I rarely often use that. The next tab is a detailed offer analysis. So this tool is used to determine if someone makes an offer, is it actually going to fly with banks? But more importantly, I use this tool to show people their cash at close. Like what's the seller's life going to actually feel like once they close the business? Okay. You're going to make 5 million year one. And then looks after that, they're basically getting paid out.

There's not too much going on in this deal after that, but. This tool, by the way, each one of these tools has videos up here and then videos that describe each section, but these are analysis tools and they become very valuable in a negotiation. This is a real estate analysis tool, so if someone has their real estate in a hold co, what should be they pay? Paying the hold co to maximize the value of the business and the real estate gets used every once in a while. This tool allows you to do offer comparisons, so if you have multiple offers coming at the same time, you can plug them in here, compare them. than have dialogue with an owner around that. This is V8, we're on V9 right now. V9 has a more simplified offer comparison tool that's in it, that's quite nice. This is a negotiation tool that every once in a while I'll use it in super complex deals. Again, there's no video for this, so I'll have to film the video for it. But you can think of this section basically from working capital

over to this negotiation tab of all stuff just to help you structure deals and negotiate deals. That's what those are used for. Then the next section of the MVA is the output. So this tab right here, market value assessment, this is all the data that goes into the output for client viewing. So the output can look like a couple of different ways in the MVA. If someone buys an MVA standard or premium, then their output is going to be 182 pages. And it's a very robust document and that's why we can sell it for 10 grand. It's not, it's really not any more work to build this one versus building the light one. But yeah, there's two different versions is all. So this is kind of gives you, and there's examples of these, so you can send them off to help sell. And I'll often send people, okay, here's an example of valuation. And here's the quick valuation overview that I showed you before, the marketing piece that sells it.

Those are the two things that I send to someone so they can get comfort that if they spend 10 grand, they're gonna get the value back out of it. I should film a video. I'm thinking right now that I'll film a video on selling the MVA, because this video is just something like giving you the high level of overview, and I'm already at 10 minutes. So this section, all of these tabs here, they link or can be set up to link. You have to link them, but they link to the associated marketing documents or valuation output documents. So the MVA I just showed you, it ends up looking like this. That's linking that. The SIM tab, these are all the pieces that go into your SIM. So our SIM looks like this, and you can see that when you're in the valuation section, this is all data that's directly copied, pasted in from the MVA. And that way, the nice thing is that when things change as they do, or you add a year on, There's a change in working capital or whatever it might be.

As you update in the MVA, it automatically updates on this and it's live for the clients. You don't have to worry about going and changing the document. It does that on its own. But you can see these are linked. Anyhow, so all the financial stuff gets linked. This whole financial section, it's linked. There's also, we're back over here, there's the financial overview. So the financial overview is just a pure shot of the financials and the normalizations. We create, and you guys have now have the ability to create just a financial overview document, which is really useful for setting sellers and saying buyers expectations around the normalized financials. So it gives them, hey, here's five years of, historical here's five years of the normalized so that's what the financial overview is and then the last one is the blind profile and there's not much in the blind profile just a few pieces of data here and the blind profile there's two different versions of the blind profile one looks like

this one looks like this and all you're pulling is this little financial chart down here but it's the one that's associated with the business right so that's that's the marketing piece of the MVA and then the only last thing there is to show is this light version which is almost yeah so there's your MVA Standard or premium, which again is the 180 pages. And there's an MBA light, which is used for smaller businesses, or if you're just going to market and that's the one you charge six grand for, 5,750. It's built right into the tool. So it doesn't need to be connected to Google Sheet or anything like that. It's just built right into the tool. And all you need to print that out is you just go file, download as a PDF, and then it just brings it up as a PDF. And so this is the valuation in its smaller document. So it's only 30-ish pages, but definitely worth what people are paying for it because it still gives them all the all the information they need to enhance the value of their company.

Okay, that's a high level overview of the MVA. Just remember, and like I've said in the other videos, it's a powerful tool. It's a Ferrari, right? So it will take a little bit to learn, but don't worry about learning this until you've sold it. That's always how things should be done. You have the tools to sell it. You know it's a high quality output at the end of it. It's I know it's worth $10,000 because people in our partner network sell for $20,000. So it's certainly worth $10,000. So sell it for $10,000. And then once it's sold, then you just go through step-by-step. We have all the copy for sending a client their onboarding form, sending a client their data collection of the Cognito form. We have all that, so don't worry, it's all there. And then you just literally go step by step through the videos, and it builds itself out. Each one of these videos is five minutes or whatever, and then you're done it. Just go sell it. Everything's here to deliver it. And also, we'll do the first

one for you if you want to, or do it alongside you. No stress there. And you can meet with me, you can meet with Matt and run through it to make sure it's done right. Don't worry about it. You have all that support. Just go out and sell it and go sell for 10 grand and make 9,500 bucks. It's a nice way to make money. Okay. See you in the next video.